SCRIPT OUTLINE

====================


Intro
	Shinjuku is a pick-up and deliver game
	2-5 players
	roughly 1 hour to play
	set in Tokyo - you build stores and rail
	win by getting the most customers to your stores

Gameplay
	Each turn:
		random new customer
		take 2 different actions
	5 actions to choose from
		most are straightforward: build/expand/upgrade/draw cards
		Lure is the core of the game

Lure action
	Easiest way to explain is to demonstrate
	Sample setup:
		2 blue stores + some track
			Shimbashi: O
			Meidai Mae: ∆
		2 red stores + some track
			Tokyo: dept
			Yotsuya: X
		4 customers in Minato: O O X ∆
	Note on setup: customers are in the Minato, not associated with any station
		The player performing the LURE chooses the starting station within the location

	Blue turn example:
		Assume blue turn
		Blue wants to move the customers in Minato to the blue stores
		When you lure you must take *all* of the customers
			You can't select a subset
		Blue chooses to start in Shimbashi
		At each station visited, you need to check to see if the store there matches any
			customers
		The Blue O store matches the 2 O customers
			But each store can only match one customer at a time
			So only 1 O customer is matched with this store
		If Blue chooses to stop here, the remaining 3 customers will be added to the 
			location of the final station they visited
			in this case, it would be the same as their starting position
		But Blue really wants to match the ∆ customer
			so Blue continues
			even though it means that they must pass through some Red stores
		Blue moves the remaining 3 customers (OX∆) to Tokyo
			where Red has a dept store
			A dept store matches all customers, but can only accept 1 of them
			Since Blue is performing LURE action, Blue gets to choose which one to give
			Blue chooses to give the X customer to the Red dept store.
		Blue moves the remaining 2 customers (O∆) to Yotsuya
			where red has an X store
			sadly, there are no more X customers, so no customers match
		Blue continues on to Shinjuku
			no stores here, so clearly no customers match
		Blue continues on to Meidai Mae
			The ∆ customer matches the blue ∆ store
		Blue ends the Lure action
			The remaining O customer is added to Setagaya
			Blue gets 2 customers: O∆
			Red got 1 customer: X
		As part of the Lure, note that Blue made use of some Red track,
			so Red also gets to draw cards for an income action
			more on income later
			
	Note the following restrictions when performing the LURE action:
		The LURE action must end at a station where you have matched a customer.
			so Blue could not decide to stop at Yotsuya, or Shinjuku, or continue past Meidai Mae.
		A station may only be visited once per Lure action
			so even if there was another path to Shimbashi, blue couldn't go back and 
			visit it again to get another O customer.

	Red turn example:
		Let's see how this might play out if it was Red's turn instead of Blue's
		Reset the board back to the same starting position
		Red could also choose to start at Shimbashi
			giving blue a O customer
		Continuing to the dept store in Tokyo
			taking the ∆ customer
		Continuing to Yotsuya
			taking the X customer
		Stopping here:
			Red gets 2 customers: ∆X
			Blue gets 1 O
			Remaining O customer is placed in Shinjuku.

	But, remember that each player gets 2 actions on each turn
		So Red could use this first action to build a rail connection between
			Roppongi and Yoyogi
		Now Red can start the LURE in Roppongi
			skipping the Blue O store
		Visiting Roppongi -> Yoyogi -> Shinjuku -> Yotsuya -> Tokyo
			And still get 2 customers while giving Blue none.

Components
	Map with 23 special wards in central Tokyo
	In addition, 72 cards:
		each card identifies a ward
		variable number of cards for each ward based on population
			ranges from 2 - 5 cards
			number of cards is noted on map and on each card
	To perform an action in Shinjuku, you usually need to play a card
		Some actions require that the card match the location
	It can be frustrating when you don't have a matching card
		Address this by having wildcards

Wildcards
	Wildcards allow you to play 1 or more cards as if they were another card
	Easy wildcards: spend any 3 cards as a single wildcard
	Cards also become wildcards for you once you have built a store in that location.
		Example: build store in Akihabara, now the Chiyoda card is wild for you.
	So building a store in a location that has a lot of cards can be useful.
		More likely to draw a wildcard when you draw cards.
	
Game Economy
	The basic game economy goes from:
		cards (in your hand), to
		stores and rail (on the map), to
		customers (for scoring)
	Note that there is no explicit money in the game
		avoids the tedium of managing lots of money transactions
	Cards serve as the game "currency"
		you always draw up to 5 cards, but
			some cards are more valuable to you as the game progresses (wildcards from stores)
			you get free income draws when other players use your track
			you may discard any number of cards before drawing new cards
	So
		building stores gives you more potential wildcards when you draw
		building track where other players need to use it gives your more draws
		discarding "useless" cards before drawing gives more possibility of getting wildcards

Expansions
	The core game has been streamlined to simplify gameplay.
	This allows expansions to be layered on top of the base game.
	Expected gameplay (after the first game) is to randomly choose 2 expansions
	
	Here is a sampling of expansions that have already been playtested:

	Kaiju
		The Kaiju expansion adds a Kaiju ("strange monster") that starts in 
			Tokyo Bay.
		Can an action to move the Kaiju to a neighboring location,
			scaring all the customers in that location into a neighboring location.
		Blocks all LURE actions through its location.
		Can be used strategically to herd customers together so that
			a larger group can be LUREd.

	Empress
		The Empress expansion adds an Empress that can be moved around the board.
		The Chairman location serves as a wildcard for all players.
		
	Chairman
		The Chairman expansion adds a special Chairman customer for each player that
		moves around like regular customers.
		The Chairman location serves as a wildcard for that player.
		During LURE, any chairman customer can be matched to a dept store instead of a 
			regular customer, thus depriving the dept store owner of a customer.
		
	Thief
		The Thief expansion adds Thief customers that count as negative VPs
			cancel out a legitimate customer

END

=============================

Extra material


	Faithful Dog Hachiko
		Hachiko is a dog from Tokyo that is famous for his loyalty.
		Hachiko would wait each day at the Shibuya train station for his owner to return from work.
		After his owner passed away while at work, Hachiko continued to wait,
		returning each day for the next 9 years 9 months.
		In the Hachiko expansion, Hachiko is placed randomly on the map and you can
		take a REUNITE action (similar to a LURE action) to bring Hachiko back to
		Shibuya.
	
