INTRO
=====

Shinjuku is a pick-up-and-deliver game about trains and department stores in Tokyo
that plays in about an hour with 2-5 players.

In Shinjuku, you build department stores and lay track to connect stations so that you can
bring customers to your stores.

These customers are your victory points at the end of the game.


COMPONENTS
==========

Shinjuku is played on a map of Tokyo that is marked with a set of stations and potential connections.
Initially, the stations are empty and they are not connected by track.
But during the game, you will build stores on these stations, and place track to connect
stations.

The core of Tokyo is divided into 23 "special wards" or districts,
and each of these districts contains one or more stations.

Shinjuku also uses a deck of cards where each card identifies a single district in Tokyo.
There are multiple cards for each district corresponding roughly to the population of that
district.

Customers

Each player also has a number of tokens for their small stores, department stores and track.
The exact number varies based on the total number of players.


GAMEPLAY
========

Each turn in the game has the same structure: you place a new customer randomly
on the board and then you choose 2 different actions.

You have 5 different actions to choose from, but the most interesting action is the LURE
action, since it allows you to move customers on the board to your stores (which is how
you turn them into Victory Points).


LURE ACTION
-----------

Here is an example move action:

CUSTOMERS: O O X ∆

There are 4 customers in X, so Blue player plays the X card to move those customers.
When moving from a district, all of the customers in that district must be moved together.

Having activated the customers in that district, Blue now needs to choose which station in 
X to start from.

DISTRICT X: 3 stations: one empty, one with Red X store; one with Blue O store

(x), which is effectively a dead end since there is no track that connects to that station.
(x), which would give a customer to Red, so is not a particularly strong move.

Blue chooses which station in X to start from:

In this case, Blue starts from (1) because there is a Blue store that matches a O customer.

STATION 1 : Blue O

When visiting a store while moving customers, if the store matches one or more customers, then
a single customer must be dropped off at that store. If multiple customers match the store
(as might be the case with a department store), then the person taking the Move action
decides which customer is dropped off at that store.

When 

After dropping off a customer, the Blue player can choose to either end the Move or continue to another station.

If end here, then the remaining customers are added back into X and Blue gained 1 O customer.

However, if Blue would like to gain a 2nd customer, then the Move can continue so that the
∆ customer goes to Blue's ∆ store in X.

To do that, though, they will have to pass through the 2 red stores.

TRACK 1: Blue
STATION 2: Red dept store

When passing through the Red department store, the Blue player must choose which customer to
drop off at this location.

Dropping off the ∆ customer would mean that there is no ∆ remaining when the group of customers
reached the Blue ∆ store.

Dropping off the X customer would give that customer to Red and would also leave a O customer
for Red's O store between here and the Blue ∆ store.

So the best choice is to give Red the O customer here.

TRACK 2: Red
STATION 3: Empty

TRACK 3: Red
STATION 4: Red O

Continuing on to the next station, there is a Red O store, but no matching customers. So 
no one needs to be dropped off.

Red already triggered income, so no more income.

DISCTRICT X: Two customers in the district XO

TRACK 4: Blue
STATION 5: Blue ∆

Finally reaching the ∆ store, Blue gains a ∆ customer.

During the move, track from the Red player was used, so Red gains an Income action.
When track is used, only a single Income action is gained, even if multiple segments of track were used.
You do not gain Income when you use your own track.

The remaining X customer is then added to district that contains the final station, merging with the XO customers
already present in that location.


A few notes about restrictions when moving customers:

Cannot visit the same stations twice during a move action.
It would not be valid to go from station 1 (gaining a O customer) to station 2 and then back 
to station 1 to gain another O customer.

The Move action must end with a customer being dropped off at a store.
In the previous example, the Move could have ended after the 1st, 2nd or 5th station, but could not
have ended at the 3rd (empty) or 4th (Red O) station because no customers were dropped off.


ACTIONS

During gameplay, you will choose from 5 basic actions to build up the city:

These actions are: 
(1) Build a store at a station
(2) Build some track between stations
(3) Upgrade a store to a department store
(4) Move customers
(5) Gain Income (draw cards)

To perform these actions, you will generally have to pay a card from your hand that matches
the location where you want the action to take place.

The exception is building track, which can be paid for using any card from your hand.

OTHER ACTIONS

While the Move action is the one that gains you customers, you need to use the other actions
to build up your rail and shopping empire.

BUILD

For the Build action, you pay a card that matches where you want to build and then you place
one of your store tokens there.
You can only build in empty stations -- once someone has built a store in a location, you
cannot build on top of or replace their store.

TRACK

UPGRADE

MOVE

INCOME



SCORINS

The game ends once the last customer is placed on the board, and everyone has had one
final turn.

Cusstomers are scored





WILDCARDS

Wildcards allow you to play one of more cards that matches any card.

There are two ways to get wildcards:
(1) When you build a store, cards that match that store location become wildcards for you.
(2) Any three cards can be spent as a wildcard



EXPANSIONS
==========

The base Shijuku game has been pared back to the core mechanics.

This allows expansions to be layered on top of the base experience.

Here are some of the expansions that have already been developed and playtested.


Faithful Dog Hachiko
--------------------

Hachiko is a famous Akita dog that is famous in Japan for his faithfulness.
Hachiko would wait each day at Shibuya station for his owner to return from work.
One day, his owner died while at work, but Hachiko kept returning to Shibuya station
each day for the next 9 years and 9 months.

In the Hachiko expansion, a Hachiko customer is randomly placed on the map with other
customers and a new REUNITE action is available to players.

The REUNITE action is similar to a LURE action except it does not cost a card and the
action must end with Hachiko in Shibuya.

Empress
-------

Busy Chairman
-------------

Angry Kaiju
-----------

The Angry Kaiju expansion introduces a Kaiju monster that lives in Tokyo Bay.
Players have an additional action that they can take which will move the Kaiju into
an adjacent location.

Whenever a Kaiju is moved into a location, all customers currently in that location are
forced to move into an adjacent location.
The Kaiju can be used strategically to herd customers together so that they can
be lured into stores more efficiently.

Additionally, customers may not be moved through any of the stations in the Kaiju's
location.

Sneaky Thief
------------

The Sneaky Thief expansion replaces some customers with thief customers that want to
steal a particular type of good.

Since each thief you have cancels out one of your matching customers during scoring,
you don't want them visiting your store,  but you probably don't feel too bad about
sending them to your opponents' stores.

Flash Mob
---------

The Flash Mob expansion replaces some customers with instigators that act as normal
customers except that when they are initially placed on the map, all matching customers
are moved to their location.


ENDING
======
